Create implementation layout (#95)
w3c/wcag-act-rules: content/implementations.md

---
doc-note-type: draft
layout: standalone_resource
title: "Accessibility Test Tools & Methodologies"
permalink: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
ref: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
lang: en
type_of_guidance: false
footer: ""
github:
  repository: w3c/wcag-act-rules
  path: content/implementations.md
---

{%- assign siteData = site.data.wcag-act-rules %}
{%- assign implementations = siteData.act-implementations | sort: "name" %}

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="start" title="Summary" %} {:/}

> ACT rules provide a standard way to compare the coverage of accessibility test tools and methodologies. This pages shows how many rules different tools and methodologies have accurately implemented. Scores are based on public test data.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph does not communicate well what these pages are about. Will provide a separate pull request with proposed changes. GitHub does not let screen reader users apply suggestions to multiple lines at the moment.

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="end" %} {:/}

## Test Methodologies

Methodologies provide step by step instructions on how to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign methodologies = implementations | where: "type", "Test methodology" %}

> {% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=methodologies %}

Reviewer: In the reports column there is an icon that identifies each of the reports. It has an alt text but that is not visible on screen. Should we at least have it visible on hover?

Author: I wouldn't mind a type of tool-tip thing here, but I don't think the WAI site has anything like that.

## Semi-automated Test Tools

Tools that combine user input and automated testing to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign semiAutoTools = implementations | where: "type", "Semi-automated tool" %}

> {% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=semiAutoTools %}

Reviewer: In the reports column there is an icon that identifies each of the reports. It has an alt text but that is not visible on screen. Should we at least have it visible on hover?

## Automatic Test Tools

Tools that fully automatically test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign automatedTools = implementations | where: "type", "Automated tool" %}

> {% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=automatedTools %}

Reviewer: In the reports column there is an icon that identifies each of the reports. It has an alt text but that is not visible on screen. Should we at least have it visible on hover?

> ## Understanding ACT Consistency

Reviewer: I suggest further edits to this section. See related PR. GitHub does not let screen reader users to apply suggestions to multiple lines.

Scores on this page are based on publicly available test results. Each ACT rule has examples. Vendors of test tools and methodologies run their implementation against the examples and report the outcome in a standard format. By comparing the outcome to the expected result, the consistency of these implementations can be worked out.

A test tool or methodology is considered **fully consistent** when all the following are true:

- all success criteria that should fail are reported as such; and
- all examples have the expected outcome. (I.e. a failed example should not be passed or vise versa.); and
- there are outcomes for all examples; and
- automated implementations may report a "cannot tell" on some, but not all examples and still be considered consistent.

A test tool or methodology is **partially consistent** when it meets some, but not all requirements. A partially consistent implementation can not include false positives; i.e. it failing any passed or inapplicable examples.

> Some ACT rules are "proposed". These rules are agreed on by the ACT Rules Task Force, and are awaiting implementation and approval by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group. See [about ACT Rules](../rules/about/) for details.

Reviewer: Not sure if we should mention this in this page. We are already saying this in the "All WCAG Test Rules" page. Maybe pointing to that as well suffices.

> ## Add a Tool or Methodology

Reviewer: This is currently buried down in the page. It is not easy for implementers to find this link. I think this should be at the top, just before the summary box. Possibly we should also point to the tool @WilcoFiers is developing for submitting implementations instead of pointing to the CG page once the tool is ready.

---
doc-note-type: draft
layout: standalone_resource
title: "Accessibility Test Tools & Methodologies"
permalink: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
ref: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
lang: en
type_of_guidance: false
footer: ""
github:
  repository: w3c/wcag-act-rules
  path: content/implementations.md
---

{%- assign siteData = site.data.wcag-act-rules %}
{%- assign implementations = siteData.act-implementations | sort: "name" %}

<section class="doc-note-box act-sticky">
  <p>This page is <strong>under development</strong> and has not been approved by the working group.</p>
</section>

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="start" title="Summary" %} {:/}

> ACT rules provide a standard way to compare the coverage of accessibility test tools and methodologies. This pages shows how many rules different tools and methodologies have accurately implemented. Scores are based on public test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACT Rules provide a standard way to compare how accessibility test tools and methodologies cover accessibility standards. The tables on these pages show how many ACT Rules different tools and methodologies have accurately implemented. Consistency of an implementation relates to how its outcomes match the expected result of each of the ACT Rules examples.
```

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="end" %} {:/}

## Test Methodologies

Test methodologies provide step by step instructions on how to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign methodologies = implementations | where: "type", "Test methodology" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=methodologies %}

> ## Semi-automatic Test Tools

Reviewer: Should not this be

```suggestion
## Semi-automated Test Tools
```

Reviewer 2: Semi-automated (though not sure that's the best term?)

Reviewer: I would say "semi-automated" and "automated" are the best terms in this context, and I would advocate for adopting those. In the preview draft there is still "automatic" and "semi-automatic".

Tools that combine user input and automated testing to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign semiAutoTools = implementations | where: "type", "Semi-automated tool" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=semiAutoTools %}

> ## Automatic Test Tools

Reviewer: Should not this be

```suggestion
## Automated Test Tools
```

Tools that fully automatically test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign automatedTools = implementations | where: "type", "Automated tool" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=automatedTools %}

## Understanding ACT Consistency

> Scores on this page are based on publicly available test results. Each ACT rule has examples. Vendors of test tools and methodologies run their implementation against the examples and report the outcome in a standard format. By comparing the outcome to the expected result, the consistency of these implementations can be worked out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each ACT rule has examples. Vendors of test tools and methodologies run their implementations against the examples and report the outcome in a standard format. Scores are based on publicly available data
```

> A test tool or methodology is considered **fully consistent** when all the following are true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A test tool or methodology is considered **consistent** when all the following are true:
```

> - all success criteria that should fail are reported as such; and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- all success criteria that should fail are reported as such
```

Reviewer: Why the ", and" if we are saying already that "all of the following" is true. This adds an extra level of complexity and is distracting IMO

- all examples have the expected outcome. (I.e. a failed example should not be passed or vise versa.); and

> - there are outcomes for all examples; and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- there are outcomes for all examples
```

> - automated implementations may report a "cannot tell" on some, but not all examples and still be considered consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Automated implementations may report a "cannot tell" on some, but not all examples and still be considered consistent.
```

A test tool or methodology is **partially consistent** when it meets some, but not all requirements. A partially consistent implementation can not include false positives; i.e. it failing any passed or inapplicable examples.

> Some ACT rules are "proposed". These rules are agreed on by the ACT Rules Task Force, and are awaiting implementation and approval by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group. See [about ACT Rules](../rules/about/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some ACT rules are "proposed". These rules are agreed on by the ACT Rules Task Force, and are awaiting implementation and approval by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group. For details, see [about ACT Rules](../rules/about/).
```

> ## Add a Tool or Methodology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Important Disclaimer

W3C does not endorse specific accessibility test tools and methodologies. Inclusion of tools and methodologies in these tables does not indicate endorsement by W3C. Scores and tools are listed for informational purposes only.

## Add a Tool or Methodology
```

---
doc-note-type: draft
layout: standalone_resource
title: "Accessibility Test Tools & Methodologies"
permalink: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
ref: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
lang: en
type_of_guidance: false

> footer: ""

Reviewer: This tries adding "About WCAG 2 Test Rules" and "All WCAG 2 Test Rules" to the header navigation

```suggestion
standalone_resource_header:
  link:
    ref: /standards-guidelines/act/rules/about/
    title: About WCAG 2 Test Rules
standalone_resource_pager:
  icon: @@@ # this is optional
  name: All WCAG 2 Test Rules
  ref: /standards-guidelines/act/rules/
footer: ""
```

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Implementation</th>
      <th>Standards</th>
      <th>Completed rules</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    {% for implementation in methodologies %}
      {% assign report = siteData.implementations[implementation.uniqueKey] %}
      <tr>
        <td><a href="./{{ implementation.uniqueKey }}">
          {{ implementation.name }} {{ report.version }}
        </a></td>
        <td><ul>
          {% for standard in implementation.standards %}
           <li>{{ standard }}</li>
          {% endfor %}
        </ul></td>
        <td>{{ report.consistency.complete }}</td>
      </tr>
    {% endfor %}
  </tbody>
</table>

<h2>Automatic Tools</h2>
<p>... text ...</p>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Implementation</th>
      <th>Standards</th>
      <th>Completed rules</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    {% for implementation in automatedTools %}
      {% assign report = siteData.implementations[implementation.uniqueKey] %}
      <tr>
        <td><a href="./{{ implementation.uniqueKey }}">
          {{ implementation.name }} {{ report.version }}
        </a></td>
        <td><ul>
          {% for standard in implementation.standards %}

>            <li>{{ standard }}</li>

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be good to have a link to the mentioned standards?

---
doc-note-type: draft
layout: standalone_resource
title: "Accessibility Tool & Methodology Matrix"

> permalink: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/

Author: I agree, but since a bunch of people have the current URL as a preview I'm going to leave this as is for now. I'll make the change before we publish.

ref: /standards-guidelines/act/implementations/
lang: en
footer: ""
type_of_guidance: false
github:
  repository: w3c/wcag-act-rules
  path: content/implementations.md
---

{%- assign siteData = site.data.wcag-act-rules %}
{%- assign implementations = siteData.act-implementations | sort: "name" %}

<section class="doc-note-box act-sticky">
  <p>This page is <strong>under development</strong> and has not been approved by the working group.</p>
</section>

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="start" title="Summary" %} {:/}

> The tables on these pages show how many ACT Rules different accessibility test tools and methodologies have consistently implemented. Each implementation links to a report with more details on how rules are implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tables on these pages show how many ACT Rules different accessibility test tools and methodologies have consistently implemented. Each implementation links to a report with more details on how rules are implemented. For understanding consistency, see [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).
```

{::nomarkdown} {% include box.html type="end" %} {:/}

## Test Methodologies

Test methodologies provide step by step instructions on how to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign methodologies = implementations | where: "type", "Test methodology" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=methodologies %}

## Semi-automated Test Tools

Tools that combine user input and automated testing to test accessibility standards.
See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign semiAutoTools = implementations | where: "type", "Semi-automated tool" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=semiAutoTools %}

## Automated Test Tools

> Tools that fully automatically test accessibility standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automated tools test accessibility standards fully automatically.
```
I think this reads much better this way.

See [understanding ACT consistency](#understandingactconsistency).

{% assign automatedTools = implementations | where: "type", "Automated tool" %}
{% include_relative _implementations-table.html implementations=automatedTools %}

## Understanding ACT Consistency

Each ACT rule has examples. Vendors of test tools and methodologies run their implementations against the examples and report the outcome in a standard format. Reports are based on publicly available data.

A test tool or methodology is considered **consistent** when all the following are true:

- All success criteria that should fail are reported as such, and
- all examples have the expected outcome. (I.e. a failed example should not be passed or vise versa.), and
- there are outcomes for all examples.

Automated implementations may report a "cannot tell" on some, but not all examples and still be considered consistent.

A test tool or methodology is **partially consistent** when it meets some, but not all requirements. A partially consistent implementation can not include false positives; i.e. it failing any passed or inapplicable examples.

> Some ACT rules are "proposed". These rules are agreed on by the ACT Rules Task Force, and are awaiting implementation and approval by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group. For details, see [about ACT Rules](../rules/about/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some ACT Rules are "proposed". These rules are agreed on by the Accessibility Conformance Testing (ACT) Rules Task Force, and are awaiting implementation and approval by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group. For details, see [about ACT Rules](../rules/about/).
```

## Add a Tool or Methodology

For information on how to add your accessibility test tool or methodology to the list of ACT implementations, visit the [ACT-Rules community group website](https://act-rules.github.io/pages/implementations/reporting/).

> ## Disclaimer & Feedback

Reviewer: Why are we having the disclaimer and the feedback bits all on one single heading? I think they would be more clearly understood and interpreted if they were each on their separate header.
